DATABASE:
    which is used for storing the data
    it is divided into three types:
       1)RDBMS(relational database management)
       2)OLAP(online analytical processing)
       3)NOSQL
NOSQL:
     used for store big data
     real time web application

sql :
   SQL databases are considered relational databases.
   They store related data in separate tables.
   When data is needed, it is queried from multiple tables to join the data back together.
   it follow normalization  ---- it means datas are split into smalll smalll because work efficientn --  split and join  it also called schema.
   database---->table------>column
MONGDOB:
  it isa no sql  database ---sql opposite.
  MongoDB is a document database which is often referred to as a non-relational database. 
  This does not mean that relational data cannot be stored in document databases.
  It means that relational data is stored differently.A better way to refer to it is as a non-tabular database.
  follows normalization ---> split the whole data into small small datas which is used to perform fast
  schema is not neccesay-------->spliting work split tables are call schema  keys(primary key)
  database------>collection------->document
  
MONGODB:
  def: humongous  (kanakila alavu data storing)
  it is indepedence  doesnot follow any schema like primary key
  Non relational database
  MongoDB is a cross-platform,
  there is no need of normalization ,schema
  document oriented database that provides,
  high performance, 
  It does not support join operation.
  high availability,
  easy scalability. 
  MongoDB works on concept of collection and document
   
---* Databases, collections, documents are important parts of MongoDB without them you are not able to store data on the MongoDB server.*----
       A Database contains a collection,
       a collection contains documents and 
       the documents contain data--- they are related to each other. 
     
DATABASE:
       In MongoDB, a database contains the collections of documents. One can create multiple databases on the MongoDB server.  
COLLECTION: 
       Collection is a bunch of MongoDB documents. It is similar to tables in RDBMS.
       Collections are just like tables in relational databases, they also store data, but in the form of documents.
       A single database is allowed to store multiple collections.  
DOCUMENT:
     it is an json document
      like columns in the relation database
      key value pair
      In MongoDB, the data records are stored as BSON documents. Here, BSON stands for binary representation of JSON documents,although BSON contains more data types as compared to JSON.
            binary data conversion is used for fast data transfer storing
      The document is created using field-value pairs or key-value pairs and the value of the field can be of any BSON type. 
      The maximum size of the BSON document is 16MB.
      A single document may contain duplicate fields.
     stores all the information of a computer in a single document called Computer and not in distinct relational structures like CPU, RAM, Hard disk, etc.


Where do we use MongoDB?

       Big Data
       flexibility
       Unstable Schema:Adding a new column in RDBMS is hard whereas MongoDB is schema-less. Adding a new field does not effect old documents and will be very easy.
       
CURSOR:

   cursor is a pointer, and using this pointer we can access the document

DOCUMENT -ORIENTED DATABASE:
    store data as document form 
    
FEATURES:
     
     *)support ad-hoc queries
     *)indexing
     *)replication
     *)high performance
   
--------**** mongodb collection are stored as document json   **----------------------
          json is a sturcture of storing value      --- key value pair   mysql we create multiple table and join but mongo we can create document inside single json collection 
          after finishning json type and it stored as bson because binary datas is faster to accesss in computer
          
ADVANTAGE OVER RDBMS:
      
         100 times faster then rdbms
         Schema less − MongoDB is a document database in which one collection holds different documents. ...
         No complex joins.
         one collection hold different documents
         used for internal memory for storing
SCHEMA:
       A database schema contains schema objects that may include tables, fields, packages, views, relationships, primary key, foreign key,
       In actual, the data is physically stored in files that may be in unstructured form, but to retrieve it and use it, we need to put it in a structured form. To do this, a database schema is used. It provides knowledge about how the data is organized in a database and how it is associated with other data.
       The schema does not physically contain the data itself; instead, it gives information about the shape of data and how it can be related to other tables or models.

      Types of Database Schema
          The database schema is divided into three types, which are:
             Logical Schema
             Physical Schema
             View Schema
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
