sql vs mongodb:
   SQL databases are considered relational databases.
   They store related data in separate tables.
   When data is needed, it is queried from multiple tables to join the data back together.
   it follow normalization  ---- it means datas are split into smalll smalll because work efficientn --  split and join  it also called schema.
MONGDOB:
  it isa no sql  database ---sql opposite.
  MongoDB is a document database which is often referred to as a non-relational database. 
  This does not mean that relational data cannot be stored in document databases.
  It means that relational data is stored differently.A better way to refer to it is as a non-tabular database.
  schema is not neccesay
  
MONGODB:
   def:
   Non relational database
  MongoDB is a cross-platform,
  document oriented database that provides,
  high performance, 
  It does not support join operation.
  high availability,
   easy scalability. 
   MongoDB works on concept of collection and document
   
---* Databases, collections, documents are important parts of MongoDB without them you are not able to store data on the MongoDB server.*----
       A Database contains a collection,
       a collection contains documents and 
       the documents contain data--- they are related to each other. 
     
DATABASE:
       In MongoDB, a database contains the collections of documents. One can create multiple databases on the MongoDB server.  
COLLECTION: 
       Collection is a bunch of MongoDB documents. It is similar to tables in RDBMS.
       Collections are just like tables in relational databases, they also store data, but in the form of documents.
       A single database is allowed to store multiple collections.  
DOCUMENT:
       like columns in the relation database
      In MongoDB, the data records are stored as BSON documents. Here, BSON stands for binary representation of JSON documents,although BSON contains more data types as compared to JSON. 
      The document is created using field-value pairs or key-value pairs and the value of the field can be of any BSON type. 
      The maximum size of the BSON document is 16MB.
      A single document may contain duplicate fields.
stores all the information of a computer in a single document called Computer and not in distinct relational structures like CPU, RAM, Hard disk, etc.


Where do we use MongoDB?

       Big Data
       Unstable Schema:Adding a new column in RDBMS is hard whereas MongoDB is schema-less. Adding a new field does not effect old documents and will be very easy.
       
CURSOR:

   cursor is a pointer, and using this pointer we can access the document
   
   
 --------**** mongodb collection are stored as document json   **----------------------
          json is a sturcture of storing value      --- key value pair   mysql we create multiple table and join but mongo we can create document inside single json collection 
          after finishning json type and it stored as bson because binary datas is faster to accesss in computer
          
